[new] Use FDW (#1749)
timescale/docs: mst/dblink-extension.md

---
title: Using the `dblink` extension in Managed Service for TimescaleDB
excerpt: Learn how to use `dblink` extension and connect to other PostgreSQL databases
tags: [extension]
---

> # Use the PostgreSQL `dblink` extension

Reviewer: I think we can probably take the backticks out of headings. it's more likely to break something than do anything useful.

Author: done!!

> `dblink` is a [PostgreSQLextension](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/dblink.html)
> that allows you to connect to other PostgreSQL databases and to run arbitrary queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dblink` [PostgreSQL extension](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/dblink.html)
allows you to connect to other PostgreSQL databases and to run arbitrary queries.
```

Just so that we're not starting the sentence with marked up text.

> With [Foreign Data Wrappers](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/postgres-fdw.html) (FDW)
> you can define a remote `foreign server` in order to access its data. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use [foreign data wrappers](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/postgres-fdw.html) (FDWs)
to define a remote `foreign server` to access its data. The
```

That link should be reference-style.

database connection details such as hostnames are kept in a single place, and you
only need to create a `user mapping` to store remote connections credentials.

## Before you begin

> To create a `dblink` foreign data wrapper you need the following information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a `dblink` foreign data wrapper you need this information
```

about the PostgreSQL remote server:

*   `HOSTNAME`: The remote database hostname
*   `PORT`: The remote database port
*   `USER`: The remote database user to connect. The default user is `tsdbadmin`.
*   `PASSWORD`: The remote database password for the
  `USER`
*   `DATABASE_NAME`: The remote database name. The default database name is `defaultdb`.

<highlight type="note">

> The details are available in the [MST portal](https://portal.managed.timescale.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The details you need are available in the [MST portal](https://portal.managed.timescale.com)
```

> service `Overview` tab or use the `avn service get` command if you installed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
service `Overview` tab. Alternatively, you can use the `avn service get` command in the
```

```sql
    CREATE TABLE inventory (id int);
```

1.  Insert data into the `inventory` table:

```sql
    INSERT INTO inventory (id) VALUES (100), (200), (300);
```

</procedure>

<procedure>

### Create a foreign data wrapper using `dblink_fdw`

1.  Create a user `user1` who can access the `dblink`

```sql
    CREATE USER user1 PASSWORD 'secret1'
```

1.  Create a remote server definition named `mst_remote`, using `dblink_fdw` and
    the connection details of the MST service.

```sql

    CREATE SERVER mst_remote
        FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER dblink_fdw
        OPTIONS (
                 host 'HOST',
                 dbname 'DATABASE_NAME', 
                 port 'PORT'
                 );
```

1.  Create a user mapping for the `user1` to automatically authenticate as the
    `tsdbadmin` when using the   `dblink`:

```sql

    CREATE USER MAPPING FOR user1
        SERVER mst_remote
        OPTIONS (
            user 'tsdbadmin', 
            password 'PASSWORD'
            );
```

1.  Enable `user1` to use the remote PostgreSQL connection `mst_remote`:

```sql
    GRANT USAGE ON FOREIGN SERVER mst_remote TO user1;
```

</procedure>

### Query data using a foreign data wrapper

> To query a foreign data wrapper, you must be a database user with the necessary

Reviewer: This whole section doesn't separate the concept from the task well. Can you please re-write to put all the concepts up front, then add in a procedure block with the task?

Author: agreed!!!

> permissions on the remote server. The following examples continue to use the user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
permissions on the remote server. The examples in this section assume a user called
```

---
title: Using the `dblink` extension in Managed Service for TimescaleDB
excerpt: Learn how to use `dblink` extension and connect to other PostgreSQL databases
tags: [extension]
---

# Use the PostgreSQL `dblink` extension

`dblink` is a [PostgreSQLextension](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/dblink.html)
that allows you to connect to other PostgreSQL databases and to run arbitrary queries.

> With [Foreign Data Wrappers](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/postgres-fdw.html)(FDW)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With [Foreign Data Wrappers](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/postgres-fdw.html) (FDW)
```

you can define a remote `foreign server` in order to access its data. The
database connection details such as hostnames are kept in a single place, and you
only need to create a `user mapping` to store remote connections credentials.

## Before you begin

To create a `dblink` foreign data wrapper you need the following information
about the PostgreSQL remote server:

*   `HOSTNAME`: The remote database hostname
*   `PORT`: The remote database port
*   `USER`: The remote database user to connect. The default user is `tsdbadmin`.
*   `PASSWORD`: The remote database password for the
  `USER`

> *   `DATABASE_NAME`: The remote database name. The default database name is 1`defaultdb`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*   `DATABASE_NAME`: The remote database name. The default database name is `defaultdb`.
```

<highlight type="note">
The details are available in the [MST portal](https://portal.managed.timescale.com)
service `Overview` tab or use the `avn service get` command if you installed
Aiven client.
</highlight>

<procedure>

### Enable `dblink` extension on MST for PostgreSQL

To enable the `dblink` extension on an MST PostgreSQL service:

1.  Connect to the database as the `tsdbadmin` user:

```bash
    psql -x "postgres://tsdbadmin:<PASSWORD>@<HOSTNAME>:<PORT>/defaultdb?sslmode=require"

> ```

Reviewer 2: Indentation for this (and following code blocks) needs to match the list indentation

1.  Create the `dblink` extension

```sql
    CREATE EXTENSION dblink;
```

1.  Create a table named `inventory`:

```sql
CREATE TABLE inventory (id int);
```

1.  Insert data into the `inventory` table:

```sql

> INSERT INTO inventory (id) VALUES (100), (200), (300);INSERT 0 3

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
INSERT INTO inventory (id) VALUES (100), (200), (300);
```

```

</procedure>

<procedure>

### Create a foreign data wrapper using `dblink_fdw`

1.  Create a user `user1` who can access the `dblink`

```sql
    CREATE USER user1 PASSWORD 'secret1'
```

1.  Create a remote server definition named `mst_remote`, using `dblink_fdw` and
    the connection details of the MST service.

```sql

    CREATE SERVER mst_remote
        FOREIGN DATA WRAPPER dblink_fdw
        OPTIONS (
                 host 'HOST',
                 dbname 'DATABASE_NAME', 
                 port 'PORT'
                 );
```

1.  Create a user mapping for the `user1` to automatically authenticate as the
    `tsdbadmin` when using the   `dblink`:

```sql

    CREATE USER MAPPING FOR user1
        SERVER mst_remote
        OPTIONS (
            user 'tsdbadmin', 
            password 'PASSWORD'
            );
```

1.  Enable `user1` to use the remote PostgreSQL connection `mst_remote`:

```sql

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    GRANT USAGE ON FOREIGN SERVER mst_remote TO user1;
```

</procedure>

### Query data using a foreign data wrapper

> To query a foreign data wrapper you must be a database user having the necessary
> grants to the remote server definition. We can use `user1` from the previous
> example. To query the remote table `inventory` defined in the target

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To query a foreign data wrapper, you must be a database user with the necessary
permissions on the remote server. The following examples continue to use the user
`user1`. To query the remote table `inventory` defined in the target
```

> PostgreSQL database pointed by the `mst_remote` server definition:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PostgreSQL database from the `mst_remote` server definition:
```

> 1.  Connect with the MST service as `user1` with necessary grants to the remote server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Connect to the MST service as `user1` with necessary grants to the remote server.
```

> 1.  Establish the ``dblink`` connection to the remote target server:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Establish the `dblink` connection to the remote target server:
```

```sql

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    SELECT dblink_connect('my_new_conn', 'mst_remote');
```

1.  Query using the foreign server definition as parameter:

```sql

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

1.  Create a table named `inventory`:

> ```sql

Reviewer 2: Hey Rajie, sorry should have been more clear, the backtick lines need to be aligned with the list indentation as well. Otherwise LGTM

Author: Thank you @charislam !!! fixed it now.
